Add the new getting started content (#10596)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/new-to-posthog/revenue.mdx

---
title: "See the money: Capturing revenue with PostHog"
---

import { AnalyticsPlannerTip } from 'components/Docs/AnalyticsPlannerTip'
import { Admonition } from 'components/Docs/Admonition'

<AnalyticsPlannerTip />

While the analytics tasks so far have been full of subtlety, revenue is easy.

It's binary.

Either someone has given us money or they have not.

There are two options for tracking revenue in PostHog.

> ### Option 1 – Manual revenue capture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 1 – Manual revenue capture
```

> Gathering data about revenue can be straightforward: you know exactly when the event happens, and hopefully you can back out from that event to imagine the precursor events you should also measure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gathering data about revenue can be straightforward: you know exactly when you get paid, and hopefully you can work backwards from that to the precursor events you should also measure.
```

Start with the place in the product where money changes hands. Put an event there. In addition, capture metadata using event properties: how much money the customer paid and what they paid for. 

If you're selling subscriptions, record the subscription timeframe. If you're selling products, include the products they purchased. For example:

```
subscription_purchased  
months: 12  
price: 19.99

> ```

Reviewer: Could we put this in posthog format like:

```
posthog.capture('subscription_purchased', {
	months: 12,
	price: 19.99
})

Try to keep property values strictly numeric – `months: 12` instead of `term: 12_months` – to preserve flexibility in building reports later on.

> Even if we don't have a lot of variation in what we're selling at first, record the details now so that later expansions, experiments or sales compare easily with historical data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if you don't have a lot of variation in what you're selling at first, record the details now so that later expansions, experiments, or sales compare easily with historical data.
```

> Now let's think about the critical path before payment happens. What are the stages or actions that are impossible to bypass to make a purchase?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's think about the critical path before payment happens. What are the stages or actions that are impossible to bypass to make a purchase?
```

These should have events tracked as well. Again, adding metadata to the event properties can help build better reporting and answer questions in the future.

> If we've got an upsell or call to action that lists a specific price, that's a great property to include in the event properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we've got an upsell or call to action that lists a specific price, that's a great to include as an event property
```

Author: ```suggestion
If we've got an upsell or call to action that lists a specific price, that's great to include as an event property
```

> ### Option 2 – Automating revenue capture with data warehouse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Option 2 – Automating revenue capture with data warehouse
```

Even at the earliest stages of a business, data can be scattered between multiple services, forcing you to constantly open multiple browser tabs just to keep up, which means your events might not give you all the data you need. 

Instead of setting up complex event-sending pipelines, you can bring the data directly into PostHog's data warehouse and analyze it all from there.

PostHog's **data warehouse** solves this problem by aggregating multiple data sources. Your dashboards can then report everything captured from data warehouse and analytics events in a single view. You can even build insights that traverse both.

> You can query *anything* from your app database with [data warehouse](https://posthog.com/docs/data-warehouse/query). Data warehouse also provides quick setup for ongoing capture of revenue events from [Stripe](https://posthog.com/docs/cdp/sources/stripe) and [Chargebee](https://posthog.com/docs/cdp/sources/chargebee). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can query *anything* from your app database with [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse/query). Data warehouse also provides quick setup for ongoing capture of revenue events from [Stripe](/docs/cdp/sources/stripe) and [Chargebee](/docs/cdp/sources/chargebee). 
```

> You can query *anything* from your app database with [data warehouse](https://posthog.com/docs/data-warehouse/query). Data warehouse also provides quick setup for ongoing capture of revenue events from [Stripe](https://posthog.com/docs/cdp/sources/stripe) and [Chargebee](https://posthog.com/docs/cdp/sources/chargebee). 

Reviewer: I think these three paragraphs could be two (mostly by combining the last two).

> Just don't forget to capture the actions *leading* to revenue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just don't forget to capture the events *leading* to revenue.
```

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Planning revenue reporting">

How will we report revenue?

- Data warehouse?
- Manual events?

Which events are revenue-generating? Are they already tracked, or do we need to add additional tracking to capture them?

</Admonition>

## Revenue reporting

With revenue logged, we can build reports to understand how much revenue is captured over time. This is a great way to understand the health of a business.

A **trends** insight is a great start for your revenue reporting:

- Create a new trends insight  
- Edit the **series** to choose your revenue-bearing event  
- In the aggregation menu to the right of the selected event, choose **property value > sum**  
- In the rightmost menu, choose the property that captures the revenue from your event

It will look like something like this:

<img width="709" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-04 at 6 13 41 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f749f1a-0893-49b1-9a8e-b268ae963559" />

From here we can choose the timespan for the report, grouping anywhere from hourly to monthly, with comparisons to the previous period if helpful.

## Your product in one dashboard

> ![a complete dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/dashboard_16b605d239.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![a complete dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/hogflix_c681b6891d.png)
```

With revenue and all your key events captured, you can build a dashboard like this that covers:

- Growth of daily, weekly, or monthly active users
- Conversion from sign up to activation
- Retention of users after they activate
- Revenue trends relative to your goals

In other words, everything that's important to your business.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: Some CTA to understanding PostHog here?

Reviewer 2: I'm kind of thinking Understanding Posthog needs to be relocated anyway. Could go into the integration docs above, I suspect, but it's very V0.5 atm. I think we leave it as is for now and promote it more once we've developed it further.

---
title: "Capturing revenue data with PostHog"
---

import { AnalyticsPlannerTip } from 'components/Docs/AnalyticsPlannerTip'
import { Admonition } from 'components/Docs/Admonition'

<AnalyticsPlannerTip />

While the analytics tasks so far have been full of subtlety, revenue is easy.

It's binary.

> Either someone has given us money or they have not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Either someone has given us money or they have not.

There are two options for tracking revenue in PostHog.
```

> # Basic revenue capture

Reviewer: If you are using Stripe or Chargebee, you don't even need to care what revenue capture looks like, you can just connect your source and query it. 

The real tricky part is what that query looks like. As far as I know, we can get some basic revenue metrics, but more complex ones like MRR are still not easy to set up.

> ### Manual revenue capture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Option 1 – Manual revenue capture
```

> Gathering data about revenue can be straightforward: we know exactly when the event happens, and hopefully we can back out from that event to imagine the precursor events we should also measure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gathering data about revenue can be straightforward: you know exactly when the event happens, and hopefully you can back out from that event to imagine the precursor events you should also measure.
```

> Start with the place in the product where money changes hands. Put an event there. In addition, capture metadata using event properties: how much money the customer paid and what they paid for. If we're selling subscriptions, record the subscription timeframe. If we're selling products, include the products they purchased. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start with the place in the product where money changes hands. Put an event there. In addition, capture metadata using event properties: how much money the customer paid and what they paid for. 

If you're selling subscriptions, record the subscription timeframe. If you're selling products, include the products they purchased. For example:
```

```
subscription_purchased  
months: 12  
price: 19.99
```

Try to keep property values strictly numeric – `months: 12` instead of `term: 12_months` – to preserve flexibility in building reports later on.

Even if we don't have a lot of variation in what we're selling at first, record the details now so that later expansions, experiments or sales compare easily with historical data.

Now let's think about the critical path before payment happens. What are the stages or actions that are impossible to bypass to make a purchase?

These should have events tracked as well. Again, adding metadata to the event properties can help build better reporting and answer questions in the future.

If we've got an upsell or call to action that lists a specific price, that's a great property to include in the event properties

> ### Automating revenue capture with data warehouse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Option 2 – Automating revenue capture with data warehouse
```

<Admonition icon="IconPencil" title="Planning revenue reporting">

How will we report revenue?

- Data warehouse?
- Manual events?

Which events are revenue-generating? Are they already tracked, or do we need to add additional tracking to capture them?

</Admonition>

## Revenue reporting

With revenue logged this way, we can build reports to understand how much revenue is captured over time. This is a great way to understand the health of a business.

A **trends** insight is a great start for your revenue reporting:

- Create a new trends insight  
- Edit the **series** to choose your revenue-bearing event  
- In the aggregation menu to the right of the selected event, choose **property value > sum**  
- In the rightmost menu, choose the property that captures the revenue from your event

It will look like something like this:

<img width="709" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-04 at 6 13 41 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f749f1a-0893-49b1-9a8e-b268ae963559" />

From here we can choose the timespan for the report, grouping anywhere from hourly to monthly, with comparisons to the previous period if helpful.

> With revenue captured, a dashboard covering the core metrics of your business becomes possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Your product in one dashboard

![a complete dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/dashboard_16b605d239.png)

With revenue and all your key events captured, you can build a dashboard like this that covers:

- Growth of daily, weekly, or monthly active users
- Conversion from sign up to activation
- Retention of users after they activate
- Revenue trends relative to your goals

In other words, everything that's important to your business.
```

> ![a complete dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/dashboard_16b605d239.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps

Growing your product and revenue is an infinite game, and PostHog gives you all the tools you need to play. Some things you can try:

- [Get feedback and book user interviews with surveys](/tutorials/feedback-interviews-site-apps)
- [Investigate user friction using session replay](/tutorials/filter-session-recordings)
- [Test your product changes with an experiment](/docs/experiments)
```
